---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "Preparing for WODs Technical Essay"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2023-02-14
published: true
labels:
  - Essay
  - WODs
---

For this WOD, I was tasked with creating a sales receipt for a sale that contained five different products. This WOD was titled "Invoice 1." Essentially, within the sales receipt, displayed the name of the items, the quantity, the price, the extended price, which is the quantity times the price, the subtotal, tax, and the grand total. For further details regarding the steps of this WOD, you can follow this link here: https://dport96.github.io/ITM352/morea/060.expressions-operators/experience-invoice1.html

With regards to my experiences in performing this WOD, I must say that at first glance of the instructions, I was not entirely confident that I would be able to complete within the DNF time on the first attempt. And my thoughts were right, I did not get it on the first attempt, but I definitely learned how to fix my mistakes after. First, I will discuss what worked well. On my first attempt, I was able to do the first six steps on my own with minimal hesitations. I understood how to declare a variable and how to compute the necessary costs. Up until that point, things were going well. Now, I will discuss what I stumbled with. First, displaying just one product row, I had a little trouble getting this done correctly as it can be shown in my screencast. I kept on deleting more than what was needed to be deleted which caused my table to not be shown as it should. I was able to pinpoint the exact point in the code that I needed to delete and corrected my mistake accordingly. Lastly, my biggest stumble was generating the remaining rows utilizing document.write(). I spent a good ten minutes looking through my notes and thinking about what my error could have been because I was confident that I had followed the instructions explicitly. My stupid mistake was that I forgot to change the values which resulted in all of the rows being shown but with the same values as the first product. After that long period of time, I found my error and fixed it. 

My preparation for this WOD was relatively the same as the previous WODs, in that, I did the readings, took diligent notes to the best of my ability and gave it a shot. Similarly to the other WODs, I made sure to skim the instructions first to see if there was something that may have been unclear or a concept that I was not fully comfortable with. After pinpointing the confusing terms, I did my research into that and with the best of my abilities, tried the WOD with the knowledge that I had gained. The only difference from the other WODs was that this time around, I was more aware of what I was getting into and understanding that mistakes are a part of the process of learning and that I may not always get it on the first try, but to review my work first to pinpoint the mistake instead of starting all over from scratch not knowing what was correct or wrong. 

What I could have done to be better prepared for this WOD was to consult the professor of any extremely confusing terms so that I could get a clearer understanding from him and be able to better explain the steps in my screencast. I would have also done better if I had taken notes after my first attempt so that I have a note of what to do or not to do on the following attempts. What I might do differently for the next WOD is to start as early as possible. Start taking notes and start attempting to do the WOD after it is assigned so that way, if I were to run into any trouble, I have given myself ample time to correct myself and find the answer. 
